As a Data Engineer II - Copilot Insights, you will participate in projects that improve availability, scalability, query performance, storage optimizations, and integration across multiple data systems. You will collaborate with partner teams, working across boundaries to create innovative solutions for analyzing and shaping data in a way that makes it easier for us to monitor, draw insights from, and run diagnostics on to see how the changes we make on a daily basis impact our customers and their interactions with Copilot in Office.

Microsoft's mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. As employees we come together with a growth mindset, innovate to empower others, and collaborate to realize our shared goals. Each day we build on our values of respect, integrity, and accountability to create a culture of inclusion where everyone can thrive at work and beyond.

Responsibilities
Contributes in partnership with appropriate stakeholders (Project Managers, Technical Leads, Applied Scientists, Data Scientists) to determine user requirements and needs for each workstream. Consider a variety of feedback channels to incorporate insights into future designs or solution fixes. Begins to incorporate appropriate continuous feedback loops measuring customer value, usage patterns, and other actionable metrics of value.
Builds scalable and low maintenance data pipelines and dashboards to give the organization insights into Copilot usage and growth and enable them to break it down in meaningful ways to draw conclusions and gain insights.
Develops, enhances, and actively improves monitoring on top of the signals so that as there are significant movements us and our partners are automatically alerted to these changes. Then expanding the system to continuously make it easier to investigate and run diagnostics for signal movements and automating the root cause for movements.
Learns and contributes to processes for the architecture of a product/solution feature and learns to create proposals by testing design hypotheses and helping to refine code plans under the technical leadership of others. Produces code to test hypotheses for technical solutions and assists with technical validation efforts. Helps with and participates in the development of design documents for simple designs or user stories with oversight, helps to determine the technology that will be leveraged, and how they will interact. Escalates findings from investigations to team members for design decisions. Learns about the implications of security and compliance requirements in systems architecture.
Learns to review work items to gain knowledge of product features in partnership with appropriate stakeholders. Assists and learns about breaking down work items into tasks and provides estimation. Escalates any issues that would cause a delay.
Learns about, shares new ideas, and leverages data engineering tools to create, debug, and maintain robust pipelines. Uses internal tools and open source when possible.
Embody our culture and values .

Qualifications

Required Qualifications:
Master's Degree in Computer Science, Math, Software Engineering, Computer Engineering, or related field AND 1+ year(s) experience in business analytics, data science, software development, data modeling, or data engineering
OR Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science, Math, Software Engineering, Computer Engineering, or related field AND 2+ years experience in business analytics, data science, software development, data modeling, or data engineering
OR equivalent experience.